Final Exam, RMU Session 1
SUBMISSIONS DUE: 12:00 UTC 9/27

= Building a Data::Table datastructure

Working with tabular data is a common task in many Ruby applications,
especially those that involve some reporting tasks.  In this exam,
you'll be building a general purpose table structure that can be used in
a wide range of data
processing scenarios.

You are expected to build the system described in the REQUIREMENTS
section of this document, and to demonstrate its functionality by
building out the program described in the EXAMPLE SCENARIO.

Please run a timer while working on this problem, and do not spend more
than 6 hours total before making your initial submission.  You will then
have a chance to make changes based on my feedback if necessary.  It is
important to follow this time limit guideline to help me gauge the
difficulty level of the problem.

Until all students have been evaluated, please keep your results private
 and do not discuss this problem with anyone else outside of clarifying
 questions on IRC and the mailing list.

If you find yourself running short on time or getting stuck on one
particular feature, try to make sure that you focus on making whatever
you do submit well polished.  I would much prefer a half-product than a
half-ass product here.

That said, try to get as far as you can.  Enjoy, and good luck!

REQUIREMENTS:

While not a complete specification, the following requirements outline
some of the necessary features for a usable data table implementation.

- -It should be possible to create a new table object by initializing it with a two dimensional array, in which each inner array represents the data for a single row.-

- -It should also be possible to create a new table object that is empty at first, and gets its data appended row by row later.-

- -It should be possible to set column names, and then refer to the columns by name anywhere that a column needs to be identified.-

- -Whether or not column names are set, it should always be possible to refer to the column by its zero-based ordinal position.-

- -It should be possible to lookup a cell's contents by row (zero based index) and column (index or column name)-.

- It should be possible to do all of the following row manipulations:

    * Retrieve an array (or Row object) consisting of all the contents
      in that row
    * Append a row to the end of the table - [DONE]
    * Insert a row at any position in the table - [DONE]
    * Delete any row [DONE]
    * Run a transformation on a row which changes its content
      based on the return value of a block.
      (Similar to Enumerable#map)

- It should be possible to do all of the following column manipulations:
    * Retrieve an array (or Column object) consisting of
      all the contents in that column
    * Rename a column, if header support is enabled [DONE]
    * Append a column to the right side of the table [DONE]
    * Insert a column at any position in the table [DONE]
    * Delete any column [DONE]
    * Run a transformation on a column which changes its content
      based on the return value of a block.

- It should be possible to do the following filtering:
    * Reduce a table to contain only the rows that pass a conditional
      block (similar to Enumerable#select)
    * Reduce a table to contain only the columns that pass a
      conditional block (similar to Enumerable#select)

EXAMPLE SCENARIO:

In the attached yaml file (s1-exam-data.yaml), you will find some sample
data which includes dates, money fields in integral cents, and a 'count'
column. Using the data table structure you built, perform the following
manipulations:

1. Restrict the rows to dates that occur in June 2006
2. Convert the AMOUNT, TARGET_AMOUNT, and AMTPINSPAID columns to money
format. (e.g 1500 becomes $15.00)
3. Remove the Count column
4. Change the date format to YYYY-MM-DD
5. Convert the table to an array of arrays, and then write out a YAML
file called 's1-exam-data-transformed.yaml', including the headers as
the first row.
6. Check this file and the code used to generate it into your repository
for review.

I will be running a diff against the YAML file and comparing it to a
standard file I produced, so please try to follow the above as exactly
as possible.  While a mismatch won't necessarily cause you to fail, a
match will surely help you to succeed.